# Criteria A - Inquiry and Analysis
## Design Brief
InfoCrypt is a web application that clients can utilize to monitor and analyze the Cryptocurrency market and provide insights and analytics on investment moves based on other users on  the platform. InfoCrypt will be secured using the users [Physical Identification Key](https://www.yubico.com/) to provide maximum security and privacy to the user. Demographics ranging from students that want to learn about cryptocurrency and blockchains to serious blockchain traders and scholars. The final goal of InfoCrypt is to create a well rounded platform that maximizes utility and aesthetics in order to provide the client the best experience on market analysis.  
This platform will leverage the power of the Yubikey API and CoinMarketCap API to fulfill it's functionality. These two providers are all leaders in the field that provide accurate and reliable data and authentication. 
## Need for Solution
InfoCrypt is designed for many demographics but mainly: students that are learning Crypto, Crypto token miners and blockchain node participants.  
The need for a swiftly accessible and accurate data representation of the market combined with insights and news is extremely important. There are between 51.2 to 51.4 million cryptocurrency traders worldwide, InfoCrypt opens up the doors for traders to have a centralized space for research and analytics. Currently there are mainly two kinds of application on the market, one that serves as a cryptocurrency wallet with minimal data and analytics such as Coinbase; and others focused on multiple indexes and data for different markets around the globe, such as Yahoo Finance. The downside of having the former, is that the user could not gather sufficient and accurate data for their analysis. The problem that arises with the later is that it's often not focused on cryptocurrency so that many key values and indexes are neglected and overlooked.  
In this kind of situation, InfoCrypt solves the problem by combining the focus of Cryptocurrency and the accurate data from reliable sources to help the end user/client get the most out of their investment journey.
## Research Plan
[Google Docs Link](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1IHHy3wIKsutxCKoxlOabyp1_oOnLBMHSqhYTx-Lb8tk/edit?usp=sharing)
## Product Examination
### CoinBase (Powered by CoinMarketCap API)
#### Graph Representation
The graphical representation of the market within the coin base app is not in detail. The user is only able to see a broad trend of the market with multiple windows of time to select. The pros of this page is that it's simple and straightforward for beginners, but for more advanced analytics and use, this graphical representation is not suffice.
#### Indices and Views
The coin base app will provide basic information on a crypto token. This includes the name, the current price and the change in price in the set timeframe as a percentage. The graphs also highlights some key points such as all time high within the window and the current price.
#### Stats and Units
The Coin base app gives a good insight on the basic statistics of the market. In a lot of tokes, this will be the market cap, the current volume, the all time high the start and end date of the token etc. These are important knowledge but it's not selected to target investors and analytics.

### Yahoo Finance
#### Detailed Graph
Yahoo finances provides a great graphical thumbnail for the user. This is due to the priority of the application. Yahoo finance focuses on serious investors and the graphical representation is targeted to users that has experience in cryptocurrency trading. As you can see, the application has big and clear titles and headings, below it has the current prices and the change in value in the selected timeframe. 
#### Detailed Analytics
If the user clicks and enters the detailed graph mode of yahoo finance, it will be much more helpful for the experienced investor. Yahoo finance focuses on different areas of trade, such as stocks and gold etc. This means that it's graphing process is very professional and detailed with variable time frame selection and options to change the look and highlight of the graph.  
Currently the graph is in candle mode, but the user could change it to line, bar, with color or not, and many other customizations to provide the most useful information for the user.
#### Key Statistics
The key statistics section of Yahoo finances is crucial. These are some important indices that investors and learners will look at to analyze the market. For example, the opening and closing price of the selected timeframe. But keep in mind, the cryptocurrency market is not like the stock market, there are many different indexes that differ from stock exchange. Yahoo finances is not specialized in the cryptocurrency market thus these key values are not the best to display here.

### Apple Stocks (Powered by Yahoo Finance)
#### Minimal Aesthetic
Apple stocks has a minimal and clean look. It's interface is similar to Yahoo Finances due to the data is gather via the Yahoo finances API. In this case, the overall feel and structure of the graphical representation maps to all the graphs that exists in the application. Although it does not provide as much detail and flexibility on timeframe and style, it definitely gets the job done. The user is able to click and hold on the graph to see the value of the select time.
#### Analytics and Selection
Apple stocks has a great analytics tool. The user is able to use two fingers to navigate a section of the graph and see the starting and ending nodes. The prices and change percentage is also displayed nicely.
On the bottom portion, there are some key statistics. These originate from Yahoo finances and they are fairly consistent with the original app.
#### Market News
The portion below the key statistics is the market news. Here Apple uses it's own news engine and provides news on the current company or in this case the crypto token from many of its partners. This is a great feature for investors to know the latest news of the market and help them make the crucial decisions.

## Additional Resources
### CoinBase Wallet System
Other than a cryptocurrency tool, Coin Base also integrates many cryptocurrency wallets. This allows users to use the platform as a way of investing and storing their property. 
### Yahoo Finance Limited Info
Both the Yahoo finance and the Apple stocks app has a section that has genera information about the token. This is not that useful since it's not fully populated and accurate. For users that would like to learn about cryptocurrency investment and how the system works, I plan on adding a section that targets this area.
# Criteria B - Developing Ideas
## Success Criteria
[Google Docs Link](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1k2b3Biap8M9-i0sxlhYkWyf0-2GIObHgZkvgf6q5DN4/edit?usp=sharing)
# Design Ideas
[Design Site Link](https://sites.google.com/ucc.on.ca/y10computerscience-jding/unit-1/developing-ideas#h.mueqbtfi18ob)
## Chosen Design
### Modern Web Platform
I chose the modern Web App design due to it's novelty and the potential. Users are tire of the layout and the interaction with a traditional web page where there are well define components that perform different jobs. This design completely changes how users interact with data and how they will posse the ultimate control on the graph details. The settings will have a rich set of parameters that the user could store under their profile.
## Planning Materials
[Design Site Link](https://sites.google.com/ucc.on.ca/y10computerscience-jding/unit-1/developing-ideas#h.ch3t1ldcxtqi)
# Criteria C - Creating the Solution
## Plan
[Google Docs Link](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1O26CjrY-vkz84HAP-MUuiFBJ8KcKHyhXW7TDBc8_7Q8/edit?usp=sharing)
## Skills Development
I learnt many new skills and tools during the process of this project but most notably, creating custom backend API and handle authentication, creating a custom node module and deploying a node.js project using Nginx. This is my first time creating a backend API that runs on the server side that connects multiple API's to serve the web application. By implementing multiple endpoints for each function, I am able to handle session cookies and JWT tokens to securely authenticate the user. The U2F login API was not officially supported by the issuer and node.js so I created my own API using the help of other open source U2F projects on GitHub. Initially, I created a static frontend server using Nginx but it ran into problems such as CORS issues when requesting the backend API data, so I decided to host the site through the Express.js instance and http proxy it to a Nginx virtual host. I learnt a lot about web development and further, the logic and organization behind it.
## Video Submission
[Design Site Link](https://sites.google.com/ucc.on.ca/y10computerscience-jding/unit-1/developing-ideas#h.ch3t1ldcxtqi)
## Links
[Live Website](https://infocrypt.jeffersonding.com)
[React Frontend](https://github.com/JeffersonUCC/Y10_ComputerScience_JDing/tree/main/Unit1_Work/InfoCrypt)
[Express Backend](https://github.com/JeffersonUCC/Y10_ComputerScience_JDing/tree/main/Unit1_Work/InfoCryptBackEnd)
## Changes
Many changes were made during the process of creating the project and my scheduled timeline ultimately acted as a guide to the use of time. My plan on the timeline was overly optimistic on the Security Key authentication API's. There were not much well documented code that I could use out there and I ended up creating my own API based on code segments over the internet. My time allocation also deviated from the planed timeline during the frontend development. I allocated more time that necessary for the front end components since I was unoptimistic of the new libraries and modules I choose to use. It turns out that over the pass year, I have accumulated more knowledge on JS and React that I know and the process of creating the visuals of the project went smoothly therefore I moved the extra time onto backend development. Many fundamentals of the design was ultimately changed as well for instance the frond-end visual elements framework was changed from Materialize to Bootstrap, a framework that I was more familiar with. Following are 4 specific examples of changes and updates made to the plan.
### Frontend Framework
Initially the frontend framework was chosen to be React + Materialize UI due to my interest in learning a new set of aesthetically pleasing components. The actual product ended up using Bootstrap as the component pack and the styling framework. This is because of time constraints that did not allow me to sped more time on the frontend and learn a new set of  components. During the testing of the authentication API, I realized that implementing such feature will be a challenge and I wanted to focus more time on it, therefore, I switched to Bootstrap which I have plenty of experience on. This allowed little to no learning curve on implementing it on React since the class name and styling commands are identical to my knowledge base.
### U2F Node.js API
The initial goal of the project was to use a Security Key to authenticate the user and implement the API connection to the authentication server. However, this did not include the method that the security key leverages. I choose to implement OTP and U2F authentication from a list of 6 different methods but this brought me quite some challenges. Initially I assumed that modules and libraries that could implements these functions will be officially published and well documented by the issuer but the reality was the contrast. There were barely any good libraries for Node.js that implements the U2F login method. Although the OTP took very little time to configure due to its simplicity, the U2F required me to create my custom node module by combining a couple code bases and some extra code to function. The created library could handle the registration challenges and responses as well as authentication challenges and responses. This took longer that designed therefore changed the technologies used and the structure of the timeline.
### React Router Configuration
At the planning stage of the project, I drew a mind map that maps out the pages and routing components of the React framework, however, the design of the system changed midway through the process, When I was implementing my original design, I was facing a problem that whenever I navigate to a new page, it will call my backend server once which results in repeated calls. I soon found this unnecessary and is a waste of resources. Also, the original design was based on synchronous code, the framework would often throw errors due to data not being able to be fetched before rendering. Although there are ways to work around this issue, I choose to refactor the code that implements 2 React router instances which passes down the data fetched from the API as properties to its children. This allows the API fetch to happen before render and using Async Await to callback the function that render the page. This approach took me some time to refactor but the result is a much more logical, fast and stable build.

# Criteria D - Evaluation
## Designed Testing Methods
[Google Docs Link](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1k2b3Biap8M9-i0sxlhYkWyf0-2GIObHgZkvgf6q5DN4/edit?usp=sharing)
## Evaluate Success Criteria
To evaluate the success criteria, the main method was to self evaluate and check whether I have reached those goals. In addition to reaching those goals, I also send out a survey to the class and gathered feedback about the user experience and aesthetics of the webpage. The results of the survey indicates that the page has met almost all of the success criteria's that I define regarding aesthetic and organization. Using the help of Bootstrap, the overall look is consistent and shows a modern feel throughout the process. Although many questions in the survey are subjective for instance How do you like the way InfoCrypt interprets data"", many indicated that they loved the customizability of the website.   
Objective success criterias are met during the design and coding process. I have always kept a checklist of TODO's for the site and tried to hit all of them. In this particular project, I focused my time and effort on the use of multiple API's, which is the theme of this unit as well . In the end, I was able to implement 4 distinct API endpoints that together forms the core functionalities of InfoCrypt. These include, OTP and U2F Login, CoinMarketCap Data and TradeView embedment.
## Improvements
Many improvements could be made to InfoCrypt since it's just a prototype at this stage. For instance, it is not usual or optimal to require the user to own a security key. The application should have other means of authentication that is also secure. This means that the program will be open to a wider demographic. The current infrastructure of the web application dose not include a database in the stack. Currently, the user data, which is my security keys public key and key handle are hard coded in to the backend. This means that only I am able to log in and to add others I will need to modify the source code. The next unit is about databases and this could be the perfect opportunity to expand. Lastly, the application should be more specialized towards individual users. This could also be solved by adding a user database that handles the information stored under each user. Currently, the application shows the same interface for all users but potentially, the solution is to create custom profile for each user.
## Impact
User security and data protection has always been a big issue, more notably now than ever. The goal of this project is to emphasize on simple, convenient yet secure means of logging in. To the client/user, this means that no more remembering passwords, no more worrying about database leaks, no more frustration on same passwords used on different platforms.  Other than OTP and U2F, there are also many other ways of secure authentication methods such as Webauthn, PIV, etc. these infrastructures are in place, many applications are still using traditional username and password but a lot are pushing the user to add two factor authentication using one of these methods. In the evaluation of the success criteria, the survey sent out shown that although many don't own a security key, they love the idea of loggin in using a hardware device instead of memorizing a username and password.  
Another benefit that this project brings to the user is the ability to visualized and customize data. Data is and always has been something abstract until it is brought to a form in which the user is able to envision it as graphs, tables ,time lines etc. By using Chart.js, TradeView and other API's on the market, developers are given the power to make data more down to earth. In the survey and by self evaluation, almost all found that the data representation and customization was a highlight of this project.
